courses/25springnasa.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: 2025 Spring - CSIE 2311 and CSIE 1310 - Network Administration and System Administration (Lab)
---

This is a course designed to train the students in the Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering to become part of the technical team to perform daily network and system maintenance tasks.

For more information, please refer to the posters about [NASA training plan](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19JsnU_qrG6RYxdCExJK8EaRB2eyDY06H/view?usp=sharing) and [NASA team](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BqaeoSF6w_uSjfVBEmuHcSbhivOqSHdX/view?usp=sharing).


## News

- Jan 26. Page created. HW0 information announced.
- Jan 28. [HW0](#hw0-information) PDF updated. 

## Course Information
- Class time: Mondays 9:10-12:10
- Classroom: CSIE Building R204

## The Teaching Team

Lead TA: 黃俊翔, 陳翊嘉

Network Administration Team TA: 謝政洋、徐粲桓、林致中、蔡朝暐、陳竹欣、范綱佑、楊翊廷、王褕立

System Administration Team TA: 林煜傑、周得壹、鐘文駿、杜冠勳、楊鈞皓

For questions about homeworks, please contact the teaching team at vegetable@csie.ntu.edu.tw. For questions about the course and other administrative affairs, please contact the lead TA at nasa@csie.ntu.edu.tw

## Course Materials (slides, homework, and solutions)
Materials from the past years are available [here](https://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~hsinmu/site/teaching). Students taking the course please go to [NTU COOL](https://cool.ntu.edu.tw/courses/46924) to see the course materials.

## HW0 Information
- Announcement page: [link](https://hackmd.io/@Mqvhsb9VRYSU2scAkRqGIQ/S1MFCNBDkx?fbclid=IwY2xjawICwHxleHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHZf9_C2M_0oRf3uza48C02flNr0nToQVe4QU3oCqTIAWD8iptiXRegluww_aem_t8bxPf2z4dtesxj2f-NDAw)
- Problem description: [Ver. 0128 PDF](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nSm_2kfsV9TbEFP42h8W2gAE-rRw2qJS/view?usp=sharing) (updated 01/28)
- Submission form: [link](https://forms.gle/mvUi94K5eN6F51py7)
- **Deadline: 2025/02/18 (Tue.) 21:59 (UTC+8)**


## How to register for the course
Please finish [HW0](#hw0-information) and upload your answers before the deadline. If you have any questions, feel free to contact TAs.


## Syllabus (Tentative)

| Week | Date  | Lecture Topic | Lab |
| ---- | ----- | -------- | -------- |
| 1    | 02/17 | Introduction to basics | Network cable |
| 2    | 02/24 | Unix basic concept, Unix basic command, File permission | Shell scripts |
| 3    | 03/03 | Partitioning, LVM, filesystem, software RAID | Partition |
| 4    | 03/10 | Cisco switch advanced functionality | Cisco Switches |
| 5    | 03/17 | IP Layer Basics and Firewall & Networking tools | opnsense |
| 6    | 03/24 | DNS & DHCP & NAT & VPN | DNS |
| 7    | 03/31 | Web server | nginx |
| 8    | 04/07 | Midterm |  |
| 9    | 04/14 | Introduction to VM, libvirt, KVM, LXC, docker | virsh & docker / Proxmox |
| 10   | 04/21 | Kernel, Package management + LDAP | LDAP／Kernel compilation |
| 11   | 04/28 | System configuration, log, NFS, debug tool	| object storage / NFS |
| 12   | 05/05 | Wireless physical layer, Wireless link layer and 802.11 | Wireless  |
| 13   | 05/12 | Free Topic	 |  |
| 14   | 05/19 | Security (Guest lecture: Prof. Hsu-Chun Hsiao) | Security |
| 15   | 05/26 | Security (Guest lecture: Prof. Hsu-Chun Hsiao) | Security |
| 16   | 06/02 | Final Exam	 |  |

Commit message:

added auditing form for nasa 25 spring

courses/25springnasa.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: 2025 Spring - CSIE 2311 and CSIE 1310 - Network Administration and System Administration (Lab)
---

This is a course designed to train the students in the Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering to become part of the technical team to perform daily network and system maintenance tasks.

For more information, please refer to the posters about [NASA training plan](https://drive.google.com/file/d/19JsnU_qrG6RYxdCExJK8EaRB2eyDY06H/view?usp=sharing) and [NASA team](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1BqaeoSF6w_uSjfVBEmuHcSbhivOqSHdX/view?usp=sharing).


## News

- Jan 26. Page created. HW0 information announced.
- Jan 28. [HW0](#hw0-information) PDF updated. 

## Course Information
- Class time: Mondays 9:10-12:10
- Classroom: CSIE Building R204

## The Teaching Team

Lead TA: 黃俊翔, 陳翊嘉

Network Administration Team TA: 謝政洋、徐粲桓、林致中、蔡朝暐、陳竹欣、范綱佑、楊翊廷、王褕立

System Administration Team TA: 林煜傑、周得壹、鐘文駿、杜冠勳、楊鈞皓

For questions about homeworks, please contact the teaching team at vegetable@csie.ntu.edu.tw. For questions about the course and other administrative affairs, please contact the lead TA at nasa@csie.ntu.edu.tw

## Course Materials (slides, homework, and solutions)
Materials from the past years are available [here](https://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~hsinmu/site/teaching). Students taking the course please go to [NTU COOL](https://cool.ntu.edu.tw/courses/46924) to see the course materials.

## HW0 Information
- Announcement page: [link](https://hackmd.io/@Mqvhsb9VRYSU2scAkRqGIQ/S1MFCNBDkx?fbclid=IwY2xjawICwHxleHRuA2FlbQIxMAABHZf9_C2M_0oRf3uza48C02flNr0nToQVe4QU3oCqTIAWD8iptiXRegluww_aem_t8bxPf2z4dtesxj2f-NDAw)
- Problem description: [Ver. 0128 PDF](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1nSm_2kfsV9TbEFP42h8W2gAE-rRw2qJS/view?usp=sharing) (updated 01/28)
- Submission form: [link](https://forms.gle/mvUi94K5eN6F51py7)
- **Deadline: 2025/02/18 (Tue.) 21:59 (UTC+8)**


## How to register / apply for auditing for the course

- Please finish [HW0](#hw0-information) and upload your answers before the deadline. If you have any questions, feel free to contact TAs.
- Fill in the [form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdVn7WA53nP958kaw3jrPvfWp386b8p4yLSfivfb7oGWNpaaw/viewform?usp=header) to apply for auditing.

## Syllabus (Tentative)

| Week | Date  | Lecture Topic | Lab |
| ---- | ----- | -------- | -------- |
| 1    | 02/17 | Introduction to basics | Network cable |
| 2    | 02/24 | Unix basic concept, Unix basic command, File permission | Shell scripts |
| 3    | 03/03 | Partitioning, LVM, filesystem, software RAID | Partition |
| 4    | 03/10 | Cisco switch advanced functionality | Cisco Switches |
| 5    | 03/17 | IP Layer Basics and Firewall & Networking tools | opnsense |
| 6    | 03/24 | DNS & DHCP & NAT & VPN | DNS |
| 7    | 03/31 | Web server | nginx |
| 8    | 04/07 | Midterm |  |
| 9    | 04/14 | Introduction to VM, libvirt, KVM, LXC, docker | virsh & docker / Proxmox |
| 10   | 04/21 | Kernel, Package management + LDAP | LDAP／Kernel compilation |
| 11   | 04/28 | System configuration, log, NFS, debug tool	| object storage / NFS |
| 12   | 05/05 | Wireless physical layer, Wireless link layer and 802.11 | Wireless  |
| 13   | 05/12 | Free Topic	 |  |
| 14   | 05/19 | Security (Guest lecture: Prof. Hsu-Chun Hsiao) | Security |
| 15   | 05/26 | Security (Guest lecture: Prof. Hsu-Chun Hsiao) | Security |
| 16   | 06/02 | Final Exam	 |  |
